---
title: Hello World
description: The first post.
author: David Schmudde
author-email: d@schmud.de
author-url: http://schmud.de
author-github: schmudde
author-twitter: dschmudde
location: Turin, Italy
date-created: 2020-04-09
date-modified: 2020-04-09
date-published: 2020-04-09
in-language: en
keywords: internet, blogging
tags:
 - blogging
 - tools
---

## Questioning Him

more in detail, Grushenka learned from him that he had literally nowhere to go, and that “Mr. Kalganov, my benefactor, told me straight that he wouldn't receive me again and gave me five roubles.”

> Well, God bless you, you'd better stay, then.

~ Grushenka

Decided in her grief, smiling compassionately at him. Her smile wrung the old man's heart and his lips twitched with grateful tears. And so the destitute wanderer had stayed with her ever since.

## He Did Not Leave

the house even when she was ill. Fenya and her grandmother, the cook, did not turn him out, but went on serving him meals and making up his bed on the sofa. Grushenka had grown used to him, and coming back from seeing Mitya (whom she had begun to visit in prison before she was really well) she would sit down and begin talking to “Maximushka” about trifling matters, to keep her from thinking of her sorrow.

### The Old Man

turned out to be a good story-teller on occasions, so that at last he became necessary to her. Grushenka saw scarcely any one else beside Alyosha, who did not come every day and never stayed long.

### Her Old Merchant

lay seriously ill at this time, “at his last gasp” as they said in the town, and he did, in fact, die a week after Mitya's trial. Three weeks before his death, feeling the end approaching, he made his sons, their wives and children, come upstairs to him at last and bade them not leave him again. From that moment he gave strict orders to his servants not to admit Grushenka and to tell her if she came, “The master wishes you long life and happiness and tells you to forget him.” But Grushenka sent almost every day to inquire after him.

> You've come at last!

~ Grushenka
